# swarmtech

Team: Jackson Freeman (jfreem63@uwo.ca), Mayank Walia (mwalia26@uwo.ca), Nicolas Mingorance-Geraldo (nmingora@uwo.ca), Matthew Simpson (msimps63@uwo.ca), Peter Hutchinson (phutch2@uwo.ca)

Bees, as pollinators, play a vital role in all aspects of the ecosystem. They promote the growth of trees, flowers, and other plants, which provide food and shelter for both large and small creatures. Bees help to maintain complex, interconnected ecosystems that allow a wide range of species to coexist. Bees, along with a variety of other pollinators, are essential for food security around the globe. To put it simply, we cannot live without bees. As crop pollinators, bees increase crop yields by a median of 24% and crop value by $15 billion in the United States alone each year. With 87% of the world's leading crops requiring pollination, bees' contribution to agriculture is critical for global food security.1 The current climate crisis has had a devastating impact on the health of bee colonies. Bee populations have been on a sharp decline, with a 25% decline in species globally through 2009 to 20152. Furthermore, in northern climates, it’s difficult for apiarists to monitor the health of the beehive properly without disturbing the bees. Apiarists have resorted to less than ideal methods of just “hefting” the box to gauge the health of the hive solely on the weight of the box itself. Hefting is a method very prone to human error which can lead to the demise of many bee colonies in the colder months. 

In order to address the limitations of the current methods implemented by apiarists, we propose a beehive monitoring system using an Arduino microcontroller and sensors to measure temperature, weight and humidity within the beehive and sent via a server to a website that the Apiarist can access. The information will be gathered and formatted in excel or chart, or a similar style format. Information will be organized by being sent is not within the designated “safe” suggested safe threshold outlined by the apiarist, they will receive an email/notification of some type. Our design hopes to allow northern apiarists to easily monitor their bee’s health, to combat the endangered status that bee’s currently face.

This project was designed in collaboration with the London Ontario Learning Apiary (Lola’s Bees) and is endorsed by Ph.D., post-doctoral associate Yue Zhou (yzhou426@uwo.ca) and Ph.D. candidate, Daniel Allen (dallen28@uwo.ca) both from the department of Biomedical Engineering.
